# Project SHARE

## About the Client

We are developing a "resource finder" for Project SHARE so that they can better distribute their wealth of healthcare resources, which are currently stored haphazardly in varying formats. 

# Project Structure

- Db: mysql 
- Server: Django
- Frontend: React

# Quickstart

Have two tabs open in whatever terminal you're using (Terminal, iTerm, etc) so that
you can run both the server (back end) and the client (front end) at the same time. 

### Run the server

- cd into the `backend` directory.
- Make sure you have pipenv installed: https://pypi.org/project/pipenv/ 
- Run `pipenv install` to install the required python packages.
- Run `pipenv run python3 manage.py runserver` to start the backend server.
  - We run our command under `pipenv run` so that pipenv makes the installed packages
  available to us.
  - `manage.py` is a helpful file generated by Django Rest Framework that lets us 
  run various operations related to our server. `runserver` is one of these operations. 

I chose to use pipenv because I felt like it would have the least problems and interactions
for everyone's operating systems compared to venv and conda and other Python package managers.

### Run the client

- cd into the `frontend` directory.
- Make sure you have yarn installed: https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install/
- Run `yarn` (short for `yarn install`). This installs the required Node packages. 
  - Note: We could in theory use npm instead of yarn. We'll be using yarn since it's the
  default with create-react-app.
- Run `yarn start` to start the React development server. This automatically reloads
  whenever you save changes.

Start coding!

### A Note on Style

In this team, we will be using linters to enforce consistent coding style. Depending on the set up,
linters can also make sure that you're writing code accessible for screen readers, that you're not
making careless errors, and that you do't have typos.

If you are agnostic about code editors, please use VSCode since they have the easiest set up
for linters. (I used to use Sublime and switched over to VSCode - it's very easy and you can
even import Sublime-style key bindings!)

- VSCode:
  - I've pushed my own vs code settings in the repo, so things should be fairly automatic.
  - Frontend
    - install ESLint extension. This should automatically detect the `.eslintrc.json` file I
    set up.
    - Restart VSCode. 
    - See if the linter is working by adding some extraneous indentation in App.js and check that
  the linter complains about it.
  - Backend
    - Install the Python extension.
    - In the command palette (Shift Command P), search "Python: Select Interpreter" and choose
    our virtual environment "share".

- Sublime:
  - install Package Control: https://packagecontrol.io/installation
  - Frontend
    - install Babel. This will allow syntax highlighting for JSX files.
    - install SublimeLinter: http://www.sublimelinter.com/en/stable/
    - install the Eslint extension for SublimeLinter: https://github.com/SublimeLinter/SublimeLinter-eslint
  - Backend
    - install SublimeLinter-flake8 through Package Control.
    - Run `pipenv run which python` to get the path of where pipenv installed python. Copy this
    and replace it with the word "path" in the file `share.sublime-project`. 
    - From the Sublime menu, open this folder from `Project` > `Open Project ...`.

- Atom:
  - Frontend
    - Install the linter: https://atom.io/packages/linter
    - Install ESLint extension https://atom.io/packages/linter-eslint
  - Backend
    - Install the flake8 exension https://atom.io/packages/linter-flake8
    - Run `pipenv run which flake8` to get the path of where pipenv installed flake8.
    Then copy the path and paste it into the "Executable Path" section of the linter-flake8 settings.
    For example, mine is: `$PROJECT/backend/.venv/bin/flake8`.
  - If it doesn't work try restarting Atom.

I've tested out the settings on the above IDEs so (in theory) that should be enough to get
all of the required linters installed. If you use another IDE, please figure out yourself how
to lint Javascript with ESLint and Python with Pylint.